draft Groq blogpost (#2904)
huggingface/blog: inference-providers-groq.md

[Groq](https://groq.com) supports a wide variety of text and conversational models, including the latest open-source models such as [Meta's LLama 4](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-4-Maverick-17B-128E-Instruct?inference_provider=groq), [Qwen's QWQ-32B](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/QwQ-32B?inference_provider=groq), ad many more.

At the heart of Groq's technology is the Language Processing Unit (LPU™), a new type of end-to-end processing unit system that provides the fastest inference for computationally intensive applications with a sequential component, such as Large Language Models (LLMs). LPUs are designed to overcome the limitations of GPUs for inference, offering significantly lower latency and higher throughput. This makes them ideal for real-time AI applications.

Groq offers fast AI inference for openly-available models. They provide an API that allows developers to easily integrate these models into their applications. It offers an on-demand, pay-as-you-go model for accessing a wide range of openly-available LLMs.

You can now use Groq's Inference API as an Inference Provider on Huggingface. We're quite excited to see what you'll build with this new provider.

> Read more about how to use Groq as Inference Provider in its dedicated [documentation page](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-providers/providers/groq).

Reviewer: (just noting it's not live yet)

---
title: "Groq on Hugging Face Inference Providers 🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/welcome-groq.jpg
authors:
- user: benank-groq
  guest: true
  org: Groq

> - user: celinah
> - user: Wauplin
> - user: sbrandeis

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- user: sbrandeis
- user: celinah
- user: Wauplin
```

Reviewer 3: add as many co-authors from the Groq org as possible

[Groq](https://groq.com) supports a wide variety of text and conversational models, including the latest open-source models from DeepSeek, Meta, Google, Qwen, and much more.

At the heart of Groq's technology is the Language Processing Unit (LPU™), a new type of end-to-end processing unit system that provides the fastest inference for computationally intensive applications with a sequential component, such as Large Language Models (LLMs). LPUs are designed to overcome the limitations of GPUs for inference, offering significantly lower latency and higher throughput. This makes them ideal for real-time AI applications.

Groq offers fast AI inference for openly-available models. They provide an API that allows developers to easily integrate these models into their applications. It offers an on-demand, pay-as-you-go model for accessing a wide range of openly-available LLMs.

You can now use Groq's Inference API as an Inference Provider on Huggingface!

We're quite excited to see what you'll build with this new provider!

Read more about how to use Groq as Inference Provider in its dedicated [documentation page](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-providers/providers/groq).

> See the list of supported models here: [https://console.groq.com/docs/models](https://console.groq.com/docs/models)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the list of supported models [here](https://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=groq&sort=trending).
```

>  ## How it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How it works
```

2. As mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference Providers:
- Custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider)
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/explainer.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

3. Model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible with the current model, sorted by user preference)

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/model-widget-updated.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

The following example shows how to use Meta's LLama 4 using Groq as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Groq API key if you have one.

> Install `huggingface_hub` from source (see [instructions](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/installation#install-from-source)). Official support will be released soon in version v0.33.0.

Reviewer 4: note: to check about the hfh version

Author: cc @Wauplin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install `huggingface_hub` from source (see [instructions](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/installation#install-from-source)). Official support will be released soon in version v0.32.7.
```

let's say we only do a patch release (no need for a full minor release)

Reviewer: Already released, same suggestions as in the other blog post.

```suggestion
Install or upgrade `huggingface_hub` to ensure you have version v0.33.0 or better: `pip install --upgrade huggingface-hub`
```

```python

> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
> 
> client = InferenceClient(
>     provider="groq",
>     api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
> )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import os
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="groq",
    api_key=os.environ["HF_TOKEN"],
)
```

messages = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "What is the capital of France?"
    }
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="meta-llama/Llama-4-Scout-17B-16E-Instruct",
    messages=messages,
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

#### from JS using @huggingface/inference

```js

> import { HfInference } from "@huggingface/inference";
> 
> const client = new HfInference("xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { InferenceClient } from "@huggingface/inference";

const client = new InferenceClient(process.env.HF_TOKEN);
```
